Maryam Ahmadi
Maryam.ahmadi88@yahoo.com • www.linkedin.com/in/maryam-ahmadi-58a666181• Toronto • 437 987 5952
My GitHub link - https://github.com/Maryam-Ah?tab=repositories
PROFILE: Accomplished professional with +8 years of experience with proven success in Data Science, statistical modelling & enterprise-scale application development for different industries. Business-minded data scientist with a demonstrated ability to deliver valuable insights via data analytics and advanced data-driven methods. Accomplished communicator skilled in collaborative relationships, conveying big-picture insights, and driving opportunities through team support and success. Passionate engineer & thriving analyst with the ability to apply ML techniques & algorithms development to solve real world problems. 


PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Expert AI and Machine Learning Engineer, CN, March 2021 – Present
As a leader of Mlops team:
Clarified requirements and ensure solution meets business needs.
Assist with estimating efforts of work breakdown structure elements associated with domain(s) of expertise.
Participate in workshops with different stakeholders to determine scope.
Supported Data Scientist and ML Developer on the design and development of ML Solutions.
Leaded the development of re-usable development assets and the productization of machine learning pipelines.
As an AI engineer on a PDS integrator team:
Designed Machine Learning/Devops pipeline for CN rail automation.
Designed and implemented Machine Learning pipeline for PDS application.
Designed and implemented Machine Learning pipeline for computer vision model.
Define and maintained engineering and configuration standards.
Created detailed design/ blueprint diagrams and documentation for the solution.

Data Science Instructor, BrainStation, Toronto, September 2022– December 2022
Conducted comprehensive Data Science courses, providing students with hands-on experience in statistical modeling, machine learning, and data analytics.
Developed and delivered engaging curriculum modules, covering topics such as Python programming, machine learning algorithms, and data visualization.
Guided students through practical projects, fostering a real-world understanding of data science applications.
Received positive feedback from students, showcasing effective communication and teaching skills.


Mentor at Women in AI Canada, August 2022 – Present
Provide support to women to kick-start or grow their career in AI.
Provide support to women to advance quickly in the filed of AI.
Provide support to help women transition from technical to leadership roles.



Machine Learning Engineer, Omdena, Jun 2020 – March 2021
Train, validate, test and develop machine learning models.
Developing machine learning pipelines that curate datasets, train, test, and validate models, compare model performance to existing or previously catalogued models Azure DevOps.
Develop Docker container with all relevant tools, platforms, libraries- Container configuration file as well as container deployment instructions /parameters. 
Built a Data drift monitoring pipeline in Azure ML for early warnings to potential issues, which helped detect model performance issues in 90%.
Monitor junior ML engineers, provide their tasks for each project and regularly hold code reviews.




Freelance Data Scientist, Various, Nov 2018 - Apr 2020                                                                      
Sample projects:
Developed a CI / CD pipeline using Azure DevOps for one of the Cineplex company’s models.
Developed and deployed a regression model to predict the number of empty rooms in shelters in the city of Toronto, with Python, Docker, Flask and Azure ML (this model has been used as a part of the Region of peel’s smart city project).
Built a web application that supports online prediction using a trained machine learning model and pipeline.
Developer, Hudson’s Bay Company, Toronto, May 2019 – Jun 2020                                                 
Worked with could-based solution platforms to apply recommendation algorithms on the emails and wrote programming code, either from scratch or by adapting existing HTML code. I saved the company around $80,000 yearly by working on a new product recommender platform among my main responsibility as a developer.

Database Developer, Rah Sazan, Iran, Jan 2019 – Mar 2019
Wrote database documentation, including data standards, procedures and definitions for the data dictionary.
Web Developer / Designer, Simpact company and Freelancer, Toronto, Sep 2016 – Nov 2018  
Designed and developed user-cenetred websites for the faculty and its department.

TECHNICAL SKILLS
Programming Languages / Frameworks: Python, C#, Java, SQL, Dreamweaver.
Cloud-based Services: Azure ML, Azure DevOps / MLOps, Azure Data Factory, and Databricks, SqlDBM, 
ML Libraries / Frameworks: Scikit-learn, Pandas, Numpy, Matplotlib, Seaborn, Tensorflow, PyCaret, OpenCV.
Machine Learning Algorithms: Regression, Classification and Clustering techniques, Image Segmentation and Object Detection.

EDUCATION
MS of Computer Engineering - Algorithms and Computations, University of Tehran, Iran - 2015
BS of Software Engineering, University of Bonab, Iran – 2011
Certified Data Scientist, University of Toronto – 2020
